>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, DECEMBER, 28th, MORE
THAN A MILLION AMERICANS LOS
WHAT IT MEANS FOR THEM AND THE
OVERALL ECONOMY.
>>> A REPORT FROM ONE NE
ORLEANS NEIGHBORHOOD THAT IS
STILL STRUGGLING TO REBUIL
EIGHT YEARS AFTER HURRICAN
KATRINA.
>> THERE IS MORE TO LIFE THA
THE LOWER NINTH WARD
MAYBE FOR YOU BUT NOT FOR ME
>>> AND THE ART OF THE
ANONYMOUS.
NEXT ON "THE NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS, HARI
SREENIVASAN.
>> UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS HAV
BEEN GOING TO LONG-TER
UNEMPLOYED WORKERS WHO STATE
BENEFITS HAVE RUN OUT.
THE PRESIDENT IS URGING CONGRESS
TO REINSTATE THE BENEFITS.
>>> THE NUMBER OF SEXUAL
ASSAULTS IN THE MILITARY HAS
RISEN MORE THAN 50% ACCORDING TO
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
THE INCREASE MIGHT REFLECT A
GROWING WILLINGNESS AMONG WOME
TO FILE COMPLAINTS
THERE WERE MORE THAN 5,000
COMPLAINTS FILED DURING THE 12
MONTHS ENDING IN SEPTEMBER
>>> AN OFFICIAL REPORT ABOUT THE
MASSACRE AT THE SANDY HOOK
ELEMENT SCHOOL SHOWED THAT ADA
LANZA HAD BEEN PRESCRIBE
ANTI-ANXIETY MEDICATION BUT HI
MOTHER STOPPED GIVING IT TO HIM.
LANZA HAD NOT LEFT HIS ROOM FO
THREE MONTHS PRIOR TO TH
SHOOTING
HIS MOTHER WAS QUOTED AS SAYIN
THAT LANZA WAS PUT OVER THE EDGE
WHEN THEIR HOUSE LOST POUR
DURING HURRICANE SANDY
>>> FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 30
YEARS, CHINA HAS RELAXED ITS ONE
CHILD POLICY
IF EITHER PARENT IS AN ONL
CHILD THE COUPLE CAN HAVE TW
CHILDREN
CRITICS SAY IT WAS A VIOLATION
OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND LED TO
MILLIONS OF FORCED ABORTIONS
>>> A LOCAL MILITIA LEADER WAS
BEHIND THE SEPTEMBER 11th 2012
ATTACKS IN BENGHAZI THAT
RESULTED IN THE DEATHS OF FOUR
PEOPLE
THE NEWSPAPER SAID IT REACHE
THAT CONCLUSION AFTER MONTHS O
INVESTIGATION, AN INVESTIGATIO
THAT INCLUDED INTERVIEWS WIT
LIBYANS IN BENGHAZI WITH
KNOWLEDGE OF THE ATTACK.
>>> TODAY IS THEth ANNIVERSARY
OF THE PASSAGE OF THE ENDANGERED
SPECIES ACT.
DURING THE INTERVENING YEARS THE
U.S. FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
SAY 30 SPECIES HAVE RECOVERE
ENOUGH TO BE REMOVED FROM TH
LIST
CRITICS SAY THE LAW SAY THAT I
HELPED SAVE FEW ANIMALS AN
CAUSED ECONOMIC HARDSHIPS.
>>> FOR MORE ABOUT TODAY'S CUT
TO UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS WE AR
JOINED BY BRENDA KERNON SH
WROTE ABOUT IT IN "THE WAL
STREET JOURNAL" HOW SIGNIFICAN
WILL THE IMPACT BE
>> YOU CAN LOOK AT THE
MACROECONOMIC IMPACT WHICH MAN
ECONOMISTS SAY WILL BE NEGLIBLE.
BUT IF YOU ARE ONE OF THE 1.
MILLION PEOPLE WHO HAVE SEEN
YOUR BENEFITS CUT IT COULD B
CATACLYSMIC.
THE BENEFIT IS $300 A WEEK
THE EXPECTATION IS THAT IS T
ESSENTIALS LIKE GROCERIES,
PHARMACIES AND GAS
AND WITHOUT THAT, THAT WOULD
MEAN AN ENORMOUS CHANGE IN LIF
FOR THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
RECEIVING THE BENEFIT.
>> ONE OF THE CONCERNS IS THIS
IS GOING TO CREATE A CRUTCH FO
PEOPLE AND THEY SHOULD TRY T
FIND A JOB IF IT IS 26 WEEKS O
99 WEEKS THEY HAVE BEEN ON
HOW DIFFICULT IS IT TO FIND
JOB TODAY THAN FIVE YEARS AGO?
>> CERTAINLY HARDER THAN TEN
YEAR AGO
THERE ARE 2.97 PEOPLE FOR EVER
OPENING.
THAT IS DOWN FROM 6 PEOPLE THERE
WERE FOR EVERY OPENING DURIN
THE RECESSION AND IN THE
AFTERMATH.
BUT THOSE ARE STILL RATHER
DIFFICULT ODDS FOR ANYON
LOOKING FOR A JOB.
AND ALL RESEARCH POINTS THAT THE
LONGER ONE IS LOOKING FOR A JO
THE HARDER IT IS TO FIND ONE FOR
A HOST OF REASONS, AMONG THE
THE SKILLS ATROPHY A BIT AND A
LONG TERM UNEMPLOYMENT IS A RE
FLAG FOR EMPLOYERS
PEOPLE WHO HAVE SEEN THEIR
BENEFITS CUT HAVE EXHAUSTE
THEIR STATE BENEFITS WHICH ARE
AN AVERAGE OF 26 WEEKS, ABOU
SIX MONTHS OF THE YEAR
THEY ARE LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYE
AND THEY HAVE MOVED INTO THE
FEDERAL ROLLS.
SO THEY ARE ALREADY OUT OF WOR
FOR SOME TIME.
SO THEY -- WITHOUT THIS BENEFIT,
THEY WILL HAVE TO CONTINUE A JOB
SEARCH WITHOUT ANY ASSISTANCE.
>> GOING FORWARD THIS IS ONE O
THE FIRST ITEMS ON THE AGEND
FOR CONGRESS
WHAT IS THE LIKELIHOOD IT GETS
YOU WILL
>> THAT'S HARD TO TELL
IS IT ON THE AGENDA.
THERE IS A DISCUSSION OF THE
BILL TO EXTEND THE PROGRAM
RETROACTIVELY BY THREE MONTHS.
THAT BRINGS PAYMENTS THROUGH
MARCH 2014
THERE IS PRECEDENCE FOR TH
RETROACTIVE EXTENSION.
IT HAS BEEN EXTENDED MORE THAN
TEN TIMES.
AND THE MOST RECENT WAS DECEMBER
12 THROUGH DECEMBER 13
THIS IS NOT AN ENORMOU
SURPRISE, THE EXPIRATION
MANY OF THE JOBLESS PEOPLE I
SPOKE TO WERE HOPING FOR A
RENEWAL IN THE BUDGET PACKAGE.
THAT DIDN'T HAPPEN
MANY REPUBLICANS SAID WE WANT TO
SEE OFFSETTING CUTS AND THAT
DIDN'T HAPPEN IN THE BUDGE
PACKAGE.
THIS THREE MONTH POSSIBL
EXTENSION WOULD ALLOW LAWMAKER
TO TWEAK THE PROGRAM TO FIND
OFFSETTING CUTS AND TO PERHAPS
TWEAK IT SO IT IS NOT AS
GENEROUS AS IT WAS
AS FAR AS PASSAGE?
THERE WILL BE A DISCUSSION AND A
VOTE ON THE 6th AND 7th.
AND SOME REPUBLICANS DO INDEED
FAVOR IT BUT NOT ALL
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, OUR INDEPTH REPORTS
AROUND THE COUNTRY AND THE
WORLD.
EIGHT YEARS AFTER HURRICAN
KATRINA, ONE HARD HIT AREA I
NEW ORLEANS IS STRUGGLING TO
RECOVER.
JOHN CARLOS FREY REPORTS
>> Reporter: HAROLD JOSEPH LIVED
HIS ENTIRE LIFE IN THE LOWER
NINTH WARD OF NEW ORLEANS.
HE WAS RAISING HIS FAMILY IN THE
SAME HOUSE HE GREW UP IN
IN AUGUST 2005, HURRICAN
KATRINA CHANGED ALL THAT
>> OKAY, THIS WAS OUR MASTER
BEDROOM.
AND WE HAD A UTILITY ROOM OVER
HERE
AND OVER HERE WAS LIKE A STORAGE
AND A PANTRY
>> Reporter: LIKE ALL RESIDENT
OF THE LOWER NINTH WARD HE AND
HIS WIFE AND TWO KIDS WERE
FORCED TO EVACUATE
>> WE COULDN'T GET BACK IN THI
AREA
AND YOU HAD THE MILITARY TELLING
YOU THAT'S AS FAR AS YOU COULD
GO
>> Reporter: SO HE MOVED WIT
HIS FAMILY TO BATON ROUGE,
LOUISIANA BEFORE RETURNING TO
DIFFERENT NEW ORLEAN
NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE HE NOW RENTS.
STILL THE 63-YEAR-OLD CONTRACTOR
LONGS TO RETURN TO THE HOUSE H
GREW UP IN
BUT EIGHT AND A HALF YEARS AFTER
THE STORM, HIS HOUSE IS STILL
SHELL OF WHAT IT WAS
>> I'M ALL CRIED OUT
>> Reporter: JOSEPH'S STORY IS
HARDLY ATYPICAL.
THE LOWER NINTH WARD HAD A
POPULATION OF 14,000 BEFORE TH
STORM STRUCK
BUT NOW IT'S ONLY 3,000.
AND THOUGH CONSTRUCTION IS
UNDERWAY ON A NEW SCHOOL, A FIRE
STATION, AND A COMMUNITY CENTER,
MOST OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD LOOKS
MUCH THE WAY IT DID IMMEDIATEL
AFTER THE STORM SURGE SENT A
20-FOOT WALL OF WATER INTO THE
COMMUNITY.
TODAY THE COMMUNITY IS LITTERE
WITH DESTROYED HOMES, VACANT
LOTS AND THERE ARE PRACTICALLY
NO GROCERY STORES OR OTHER
BUSINESSES HERE.
>> AS KIDS WE WERE HERE.
AND NOW, THERE'S NOBODY AROUND
HERE
BUT I WANT TO BE HERE.
I LOVE THIS LAND
>> Reporter: THOUGH CITY
OFFICIALS DECLINED OUR REPEATE
REQUESTS TO TALK ABOUT THE
REBUILDING OF THE LOWER NINT
WARD THEY SENT US A DOCUMENT
DETAILING HOW THEY DIRECTE
FEDERAL FUNDS.
MORE THAN $900 MILLION WAS
ALLOCATED FOR THE LOWER NINT
WARD FOR ROW RECONSTRUCTION,
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL
FACILITIES AND THE BUILDING OF
THAT COMMUNITY CENTER AND FIRE
HOUSE.
IT'S AN AMOUNT SIMILAR TO AN
SOMETIMES GREATER THAN
INVESTMENTS MADE IN OTHE
NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE MANY MOR
RESIDENTS HAVE RETURNED.
NOW SOME QUESTIONED WHETHER THAT
MONEY WAS WORTH IT AND IF TH
LOWER NINTH WARD SHOULD BE
REBUILT AT ALL
>> I DON'T THERE IS ANY PROSPECT
OF IT BECOMING WHAT IT WAS
>> Reporter: MARK DAVIS IS THE
DIRECTOR OF TULANE UNIVERSIT
DIRECTOR ON POLICY
HE HEM RED SHAPE NEIGHBORHOODS
LIKE THE LOWER NINTH WARD.
>> YOU HAVE TO REESTABLISH THE
FRAMEWORK ON WHICH THE COMMUNITY
WAS BUILT.
AND IF YOU HAVE NO PLACE T
SHOP, HOW DO YOU MOVE THERE?
YOU DON'T HAVE A HOSPITAL.
YOU HAVE REALLY ONE SCHOOL
THE THINGS THAT ACTUALLY BECOM
NECESSARY TO DEVELOP A
NEIGHBORHOOD, AND ATTRACT PEOPLE
BACK AREN'T CURRENT PRESENT.
>> IF THE LOWER NINTH WARD WAS
BUILT BASICALLY AND SOLELY O
EMOTION AND PASSION FO
RESTORING WHAT WAS THERE, YOU'RE
SAYING THAT THAT'S NOT
SUSTAINABLE?
>> NO.
IT'S NOT SUSTAINABLE ANY MOR
THAN MY DESIRE TO BE 25 AGAIN.
>> Reporter: CONTROVERSY OVE
WHICH NEW ORLEANS NEIGHBORHOOD
SHOULD AND SHOULDN'T BE REBUIL
STARTED MONTHS AFTER THE STORM
WHEN IN EARLY 2006 THE GREEN DOT
MAP WAS UNVEILED
THERE WERE DOTS ON LOW LYING
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT SHOULD BE
CONSIDERED FOR FUTURE PARK
INSTEAD OF FULL-SCAL
REDEVELOPMENTMENT.
THE LOWER NINTH WARD WAS WITHI
OF THOSE NEIGHBORHOODS
THE MESSAGE WAS CLEAR,
REDEVELOPMENT SHOULD FOCUS O
AREAS WITH THE BEST CHANCE FOR
RECOVERY, NOT NEIGHBORHOODS LI
THE LOWER NIENSDS WHICH HAD TH
HIGHEST PERCENTAGE OF BLAC
OWNERSHIP IN THE NATION.
BUT THERE ARE THOSE WHO AR
COMMITTED TO REBUILD THE LOWER
NINTH WARD AS WAS.
THIS WOMAN RUNS A NON-PROFIT
COMMITTED TO REBUILDING AS MAN
HOMES AS POSSIBLE.
>> WHAT WOULD BE HERE WHERE YO
FINALLY SAY MY WORK IS DONE?
>> OUR WORK WILL BE DONE WHEN HE
STOP GETTING CALLS FROM PEOPLE
WHO SAY I WANT TO GET BACK IN MY
HOUSE.
THAT IT'S NOT HAPPENING YET.
>> Reporter: WITH PRIVAT
DONATIONS LANE VOLUNTARY LABOR
SHE HAS RESTORED OVER 60 HOMES
INCLUDING ULA WHITE.
SHE SAYS SHE ALWAYS KNEW SHE
WOULD COME BACK.
>> I HAD AN ATTITUDE ABOUT
COMING BACK.
I HAD AN ATTITUDE.
I WAS LIKE, THIS IS WHERE I GREW
UP AT AND THIS IS WHERE I WANT
TO BE AND I'M DETERMINED I'M
GOING TO GET THERE
>> WHAT I SEE WHEN I COME HERE
ARE THE EMPTY LOTS AND THE
HOUSES THAT NEED REPAIR AN
ABANDONED BUILDINGS AND CHURCHES
THAT ARE BOARDED UP.
>> ALL THOSE THINGS YOU SEE AR
REAL
BUT I SEE HOPE
>> WHERE
WHENEVER I SEE A LOT THAT IS
SCRAPED DOWN AND GETTING READY
TO BUILD A HOME, I SEE HOPE.
>> Reporter: WHITE SAYS HE
GROWN CHILDREN WHO SETTLED
ELSEWHERE IN NEW ORLEANS DON'T
UNDERSTAND WHY SHE WOULD RETUR
TO A NEIGHBORHOOD IN SUCH BA
SHAPE.
>> THEY DON'T UNDERSTAND
THERE IS MORE TO LIFE THAN THE
LOWER NINTH WARD
MAYBE FOR YOU, BUT NOT FOR ME.
AND THAT'S JUST HOW IT IS.
>> Reporter: BUT PROFESSOR MAR
DAVIS SAY THAT HER CHILDREN AR
EMBLEMATIC OF WHY SO FEW
RESIDENTS HAVE RETURNED.
>> IS IT TOO LONG FOR PEOPLE
WHEN YOU ARE SETTLED AND YOU
KIDS IN THE SCHOOL AND YOU HAV
A NEW DOCTOR AND YOU ARE EIGHT
YEARS OLDER IT MAKES IT HARD T
COME BACK.
>> Reporter: THE NEIGHBORHOO
CONTINUES TO HAVE A HIGH CRIME
RATE AND SOME WORRY IT MIGHT NOT
BE SAFE FROM ANOTHER BIG STORM
>> WOULD YOU SAY IT'S NOW SAFE
>> IT'S SAFER.
THAT'S AS MUCH AS YOU CAN SA
FOR ANYWHERE I CAN IMAGINE
THERE'S NOT A COMMUNITY YO
DON'T LIVE AT RISK
>> Reporter: BUT OTHER
NEIGHBORHOODS ARE THRIVING IN
WAY THAT THE LOWER NINTH WAR
HASN'T
TERRY NORTH IS CEO OF
NON-PROFIT ASSOCIATED WITH THE
CATHOLIC CHURCH REBUILDING HOMES
IN TREMAINE.
>> WE GET A LOT OF POSITIV
FEEDBACK
>> THEY HAVE BUILT 517 NEW HOMES
THERE.
AND TREMAINE HAS AN OCCUPANC
RATE OF 60% COMPARED TO 30% IN
THE LOWER NINTH WARD
>> IS IT A FULLY POPULATED
NEIGHBORHOOD
IT'S NOT LIKE WHAT YOU SAW I
THE NINTH WARD WHERE YOU KNO
SMALL PERCENTAGES OF PEOPLE WERE
ABLE TO RETURN AND REBUILD
>> Reporter: WHILE THEY HAVE
RECEIVED SIMILAR AMOUNTS O
MONEY FROM THE GOVERNMENT DURING
THE PAST FOUR YEARS, TREMAINE,
WHICH BORDERS THE TOURIS
DESTINATIONS LIKE THE FRENCH
QUARTER, HAS BENEFITTED FROM
PRIVATE INVESTMENT
THE LOWER NINTH WARD ON THE EDGE
OF THE CITY HASN'T
>> IS IT WORTH FINDING RESOURCES
TO REINVEST IN THE LOWER NINTH
WARD TO BRING THE COMMUNITY BACK
LIKE IT USED TO BE
>> NO.
JUST BEING HONEST WITH YOU
WHEN IT COMES DOWN TO IT WHE
YOU ARE TRYING TO ATTRAC
BUSINESS AND PRIVATE INVESTMEN
IT'S DOLLARS AND CENTS
>> DO YOU THINK THAT THE LOWER
NINTH WARD WILL EVER LOOK LIKE
TREMAINE
>> I'M AFRAID NOT.
I'M AFRAID NOT
I WISH IT WOULD.
BUT I'M AFRAID NOT
>> ARE
>> Reporter: FOR THOSE WHO WAN
TO RETURN, THIS IS A CAUTIONAR
TALE
>> I GET MAD AND WAKE UP IN TH
MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT MAD.
I DON'T HAVE NO RECOURSE I CAN
GO TO THE COMPLAIN OR APPEAL
THIS THING TO.
>> Reporter: HE COULDN'T GET A
PERMIT TO REBUILD UNTIL 2009
ONLY TO BE TOLD HE DOESN'T HAV
THE RIGHT PAPERWORK.
NOW HE IS WAITING FOR ANOTHE
INSPECTION ON HIS HOME WHILE THE
NEWLY CONSTRUCTED FRAME OF THE
HOUSE HE BUILT IS STARTING T
ROT AWAY
>> THE WOOD IS CRACKING AND GONE
AWAY
>> Reporter: AND THE SUPPLIE
SIT IN STORAGE
>> I HAVE WENDELLS
I HAVE PAINT AND INSULATION.
>> YOU ARE READY TO GO
>> I'VE BEEN READY TO GO
PLUMBING FIXTURES AND CABINETS
AND MY FRAME ROTTED OUT.
>> Reporter: JOSEPH AND OTHE
RESIDENTS FEEL THAT THE LOWE
NINTH WARD WAS LEFT OUT OF THE
EFFORTS TO REBUILD NEW ORLEANS
AND THEY WERE DISCRIMINATE
AGAINST WHILE THE WHIT
NEIGHBORHOODS WERE REBUILT
>> IS THAT A PART OF IT?
>> I THINK RAY CHARLES AND
STEVIE WONDER COULD SEE THAT AND
BOTH THOSE PEOPLE ARE BLIND.
THEY CAN SEE WHAT IS GOING ON IF
IT'S ALL BLACK
>> Reporter: IN OCTOBER 2010 A
JUDGE RULED THAT A FEDERALLY
FUNDED HOUSING PROGRAM DESIGNE
TO ASSIST HOMEOWNERS
DISCRIMINATED AGAINST BLAC
HOMEOWNERS IN THE LOW INCOME
NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE THE LOWER
NINTH WARD
HAROLD JOSEPH SAID MANY PEOPLE
LIKE HIM DIDN'T GET ENOUGH T
COVER THE COST OF REBUILDING
>> WHY DO YOU KEEP DOING IT?
ARE YOU GOING TO FINISH THIS
HOUSE?
>> I DON'T EVEN KNOW
YOU KNOW, IT'S BETTER THINGS T
DIE FOR THAN NOTHING
YOU KNOW, I DON'T HAVE M
NEIGHBORS WHEREBY I CAN HOLLER
AT THIS ONE OR THAT ONE, THE
MOTHER ON THE CORNER HER MOTHE
DIED
>> YOU ARE POINTING TO EMPTY
LOTS
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
YOU DON'T KNOW WHERE ALL THESE
PEOPLE ARE
THIS WAS A THRIVING COMMUNITY.
>> BUT YOU SAY YOU HAVE DONE ALL
THIS WORK AND GONE THROUGH ALL
THIS PAIN AND SUFFERING BECAUS
THIS IS YOUR HOME.
>> THIS IS MY HOME
THERE IS A DIFFERENCE BETWEE
HOUSE AND HOME
PEOPLE SAY I BUILT A HOME.
YOU CAN'T BUILD A HOME
THIS HOME HAS TO GROW ARE LOVE
HEART, FEELING
>> TAKE A TOUR OF THE HISTORIC
NINTH WARD IN NEW ORLEANS, VISIT
NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> LAST MONTH IN NEW YORK A
EXHIBIT CAUGHT OUR EYE
ANONYMOUS JOURNAL ENTRIES FROM
STRANGERS AROUND THE WORLD
HERE IS MARTIN FLETCHER.
>> Reporter: THEY PASS LIK
STRANGERS IN THE NIGHT
THEY ARE STRANGERS IN THE NIGHT.
UNTIL 48th AND 9th AVENUE IN
MANHATTAN WHERE WE CAME ACROSS
AN UNUSUAL EXHIBIT AT TH
FOUNTAIN ART GALLERY
IT ASKED PEOPLE WHAT IS YOUR
STORY?
SLOW DOWN A MOMENT AND WRITE
SOMETHING FROM YOUR LIFE
IT'S PART OF THE STRANGERS
PROJECT.
MANY PEOPLE WRITING THINGS THA
ARE HARD TO SAY ALOUD OR T
SOMEONE YOU KNOW OR FAMILY EVE
LIKE TODAY IS MY FATHER'S BISHTH
DAY.
HE'S 49.
SOME FEW YEARS AGO, AT LEAST 10,
HE SHOT A MAN.
HE SHOT A MAN THAT DIED MAYB
TEN YEARS AGO ON HIS BIRTHDAY.
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, DADDY, I LOV
YOU.
FORGIVE YOURSELF, I DO
STRANGERS PROJECT VOLUNTEERS ASK
PEOPLE TO WRITE THEIR STORY EVEN
IF THEY DON'T THINK THEY HAV
ONE.
SO FAR THE FOUNDER HAS COLLECTED
7,000 INTIMATE MOMENTS, GETTIN
PEOPLE TO SHARE ANONYMOUSLY,
MAYBE TO RELIEVE THEMSELVES OF A
BURDEN, DEFINING COMMON GROUND
WITH STRANGERS
>> THIS IS A -
>> FOR DOEMAN IT'S A FORM OF ART
GETTING PEOPLE TO PAY ATTENTIO
TO EACH OTHER.
>> I THINK WE HAVE A BIG DESIR
TO BE HEARD.
WE HAVE A LOT OF WAYS TO
BROADCAST WITH SOCIAL MEDIA.
AND ALL THAT IS GREAT I THIN
BUT THERE IS A DEFICIT IN JUST
FEELING EMOTIONALLY HEAR
SOMETIMES.
>> IT FELT GOOD.
>> Reporter: TIMOTHY WROTE ABOUT
TRAYVON MARTIN
>> IT WAS THERAPEUTIC.
IT GIVES YOU A SENSE OF FEELIN
LIKE SOMEONE IS LISTENING.
EVEN THOUGH THESE ARE STRANGERS.
>> Reporter: STRANGERS BUT EAC
STORY MAKES THEM FEEL A LITTLE
BIT LESS ALONE LIKE THIS LADY IN
THE BRONX.
BORN IN THE BRONX, MOM REMARRIED
THREE TIMES, HER HUSBAND WAS
ABUSIVE, HAD A BOYFRIEND FROM 15
TO 20 YEARS OLD WHO ALSO ABUSE
ME BUT I LOVED HIM DEARLY.
I HOPE EVERYTHING WILL BE OKAY
SOON MOVEMENT PAST HAUNTS ME
THEN THERE'S THIS.
MY PARTNER MIGHT BE HOMELESS I
A FEW MONTHS I'M GOING TO STAY
WITH HER NO MATTER WHAT BUT I'
WORRIED WHAT MY FRIENDS AN
FAMILY WILL SAY.
IT'S NOT HER FAULT
I CAN'T JUST STOP BEING IN LOVE.
THE SHOW HUNG 500 NOTES, SOM
TRAGIC, SOME COMIC AND SOM
CONFUSED BUT ALL TO FROM THE
HEART.
>> YOU SIT ON THE SUBWAY AND A
MOTHER IS SCREAMING AT HER CHILD
AND YOU ARE LIKE I WISH TH
MOTHER WOULD STOP.
BUT IF YOU TAKE A MOMENT T
THINK WHO KNOWS WHAT HER DAY O
LIFE LOOKS LIKE, EVERYBODY HAS A
STORY.
>> Reporter: LIKE THIS ONE, I'
MOURNING THE LOSS OF MY KIDS
BEING LITTLE
HERE AN 18-YEAR-OLD GIRL COUNT
THE BOYS SHE HAS SLEPT WITH, 1
AND A GIRL AND A THREESOME
SOME REVEAL THEIR PAIN THROUGH
DRAWINGS, THROUGH THE TEAR
SOMEONE QUOTED A POET.
THE WORLD IS NOT MADE OF ATOMS
IT'S COMPOSED OF TINY STORIES.
>> THIS WAS A GENTLEMAN WH
WALKED BY AND ASKED WHAT I WAS
DOING.
I EXPLAINED THE PROJECT TO HIM
HE WAS IN HIS 60s.
WE TALKED FOR A FEW MINUTES AN
HE WALKED OFF.
20 MINUTES LATER HE CAME BAC
AND ASKED IF HE COULD SHAR
SOMETHING.
I SAID OF COURSE
HE JUST WROTE I'M SURVIVIN
BRAIN CANCER SO FAR.
AND THERE'S SO MUCH STORY IN
THAT TWO SENTENCES ON ONE LINE
>> CALLS FOR HELP?
FOR ATTENTION?
RELIEVING PAIN BY BARING THE
SOUL
BRANDON SAYS IT BEST
>> I THINK WE SHOULD BE MORE
EMOTIONALLY OPEN AND THIS IS A
GOOD WAY TO PRACTICE THAT.
>> Reporter: HEALING OUR WORLD
STORY BY STORY
>>> THIS IS "THE NEWSHOU
WEEKEND.
>>> FINALLY TONIGHT, A STORY YOU
MIGHT HAVE MISSED THE PARDONIN
OF A BRITISH WAR HERO, HIS
CRIME?
HOMOSEXUALITY.
>> Reporter: ALLEN TOURING HAS
BEEN PARDONED ON THE
RECOMMENDATION OF TH
GOVERNMENT
>> HE IS A WAR HERO.
HE COULD HAVE DONE SO MUCH MORE.
HE IS SEEN AS THE FATHER OF TH
MODERN COMPUTER BUT HIS LIFE
ENDED IN DISGRACE IN
CIRCUMSTANCES WE FIN
EXTRAORDINARY AND HORRIBLE
WE CAN SET THE RECORD STRAIGHT
NOW.
>> Reporter: HE WAS ONE OF THE
FOUNDERS OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
HIS WORK HELPED CRACK THE GERMAN
NAVY'S CODES
THAT EFFORT COULD HAVE SHORTENED
THE WAR BY AS MUCH AS TWO YEARS.
BUT IN 1952 HE WAS CONVICTED FOR
HOMOSEXUALITY.
HE LOST HIS SECURITY CLEARANCE
AND HAD TO QUIT WORK
HE OPTED FOR A CHEMICAL CAST
STATION.
TWO YEARS LATER HE DIED FROM
CYANIDE POISONING.
MANY THINK AN ACCIDENT WAS MOR
LIKELY THAN SUICIDE.
HIS PARDON HAS BEEN WELCOMED B
EVERYONE
BUT IT DOES RAISE ONE AWKWAR
NEW QUESTION, IF TOURING SHOUL
BE PARDONED SHOULDN'T EVERYONE
ELSE WHO WAS CONVICTED OF TH
SAME THING
>> IT WAS A CRIME FOR HIM AN
50,000 OTHER GAY AND BI-SEXUAL
MEN BUT THEY ARE NOT GETTING A
PARDON
HE IS.
THE LAW SHOULD NOT BE SELECTIV
IN THE PARDON IT GIVES
WE NEED TO RIGHT THIS HISTORIC
WRONG.
>> Reporter: MUCH OF HIS LIF
AND WORK WERE SECRETIVE BUT HI
LEGACY MIGHT NOT YET BE OVER
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AN
ONLINE
KEEPING YOUNG OFFENDERS OUT OF
JAIL
POLICE FOCUSING ON FAMILIES.
>> IT'S NOT WELCOME MATS ON TH
FLOOR, YOU HAVE TO DEVELOP
RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE PARENTS
I HAD A MOTHER SLAM THE DOOR I
MY FACE A FEW TIMES.
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
"THE NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.